step 4 how to install WordPress on your
website for this tutorial I'm going to
show you how to install wordpress
wordpress is a free platform has been
commonly used by bloggers and site
owners for many years it basically
allows you to build websites without
needing any coding or design skills it's
highly customizable user friendly and
really is the best way to build your
website hostgator makes it very easy to
install wordpress so i'm now going to
take you through the installation
process first you'll need to login to
your website control panel you can do
this by opening up a browser window and
type in your new domain into the address
bar with a forward slash and the word
see panel after it so it'll look
something like this www your website
whatever your name is calm say /c panel
obviously you'll replace the word your
website calm with your own domain name
you'll then be asked to enter a user and
password which you can find in the
welcome email that Hostgator sent you so
enter those and you'll be taken to your
control panel which will look something
like this now there are lots of things
you can do from within your control
panel you can set up email accounts you
can check your site's visitor statistics
upload finals a range of other things as
well but for this tutorial we're just
focused on setting up WordPress so
scroll down until you see the fantastic
deluxe logo and click on that next you
want to click on the word press link in
the left side menu then click new
installation now you just need to fill
in a few details your site the first box
labeled install in directory you can
just leave blank then you need to enter
an admin username and password to manage
your site they can be anything you like
just remember again to write them down
somewhere safe the next section labeled
base configuration can again be left
blank
then click the install WordPress button
you'll then see a confirmation page so
just click the finish installation
button and that said you're done you
have now installed WordPress and you
have the beginnings of your new website
you can now visit your domain and you'll
see the standard WordPress install on it
in the next video I'll show you around
wordpress how to configure customize and
use it